The SAP product line includes servers and tools for building servers.
Servers include:

  * SAP Adaptive Server Enterprise (ASE) is a database server. SAP ASE manages information stored in one or more databases.
	
  * SAP Open Server solution provides the tools and interfaces required to create a custom server, also called an “SAP Open Server application.”

An SAP Open Server application can be any type of server. For example, an SAP Open Server application can perform specialized calculations, provide access to real time data, or interface with services such as electronic mail. An SAP Open Server application is created individually, using the building blocks provided by the SAP Open Server Server-Library.

#### SAP ASE and SAP Open Server applications are similar in the following ways:
* SAP ASE and SAP Open Server applications are both servers, responding to client requests.
* Clients communicate with both SAP ASE and SAP Open Server applications through Open Client products.

#### But they also differ:
* An application programmer must create an SAP Open Server application using Server-Library’s building blocks and supplying custom code. SAP ASE is complete and does not require custom code.
	
* An SAP Open Server application can be any kind of server, and can be written to understand any language. SAP ASE is a database server, and understands only Transact-SQL.
	
* An SAP Open Server can communicate with “foreign” applications and servers that are not based on the TDS protocol, as well as SAP applications and servers. SAP ASE can communicate directly only with SAP applications and servers. SAP ASE can communicate with foreign applications and servers by using an SAP Open Server gateway application as an intermediary.
